CLI Versus GUI: My Understanding
Before enrolling in this class, I had never experienced the technical terms graphical user interface (GUI) or command line interface (CLI). My only prior experience with text based commands has been to craft probability simulations on R in order to make claims supported by the law of large numbers. Thanks to this class introducing these new terms to me, I have begun to broaden my understanding of computers and their operating systems. Yet I still don’t feel confident enough to describe the differences between GUI and CLI, using terminology relative to computers, so I will attempt to express my understanding through an allegory centered more in the realm of pure mathematics that I am more comfortable with.

For this allegory, computers seem to work similarly to functions. A function is a mathematical object in which one injects an input, and a corresponding output is produced. Similarly, for a computer, you can give it a command in order to access specific information or output. Computers like functions can be depicted in a variety of ways, depending on the user’s preference. One way to depict a function is through a graph; this method is often used as it is very beginner-friendly, utilizing visual aids to help users make the connection between input and output. In this allegory, graphing would be akin to the aptly named graphical user interface. Much like GUI, while graphing has many benefits, it also has drawbacks. One such drawback is that while the function may not be limited, the amount of it you can depict on a screen or paper is limited, which can sometimes make accessing a specific output inconvenient or time-consuming.



Functions can also be modeled algebraically, using a generalized formula. A formula is typically composed of constants and algebraic variables; these variables are where you place specific inputs to receive outputs. One of the main benefits of using formulas over graphing is that you can simply input any number you like and receive an output, there is no need to create or expand the formula like you might with a graph, making formulas more time efficient. Formulas can be harder to work with, especially for beginners, much like CLI.

In summary, I have learned that GUI-like graphing can make operating a computer much easier due to visual aids and iconography. In fact, it seems that this conclusion has been made by most manufacturers, as they are typically in GUI mode by default. However, with enough skill and knowledge, CLI can eliminate unnecessary visuals or operating steps while searching for outcomes, making it potentially more time-efficient and precise. Just like functions in mathematics, neither method should be frowned upon as each was created with specific strengths and weaknesses in mind, thus their use should be open to the preference of the user.
